Migration guide (#167)
BrightspaceUI/testing: docs/migration-guide.md

  beforeEach(() => clock = useFakeTimers(
	toFake: ['setTimeout']
  }));
  afterEach(() => clock.restore());

});
```

### Step 3: No need to wait for `updateComplete`

The `fixture()` in `@brightspace-ui/testing` differs from the `@open-wc/testing` version in that it waits for ALL nested Lit components' `updateComplete` to resolve.

Therefore, any tests which were previously manually `await`-ing various elements' `updateComplete` no longer need to do so. 🎉

Before:

```javascript
const elem = await fixture(html`
  <some-elem>
    <some-other-elem></some-other-elem>
  </some-elem>
`);
await elem.shadowRoot.querySelector('nested-elem').updateComplete;
await elem.querySelector('some-other-elem').updateComplete;
```

After:

```javascript
const elem = await fixture(html`
  <some-elem>
    <some-other-elem></some-other-elem>
  </some-elem>
`);
```

However, waiting for all nested `updateComplete`s means `fixture()` can be a bit slower. Therefore, tests that were relying on waiting for an event fired during the initial render will likely fail due to the event now firing during the `fixture()` call.

Those tests will need to be reworked to not rely on events fired during `render()`.

> ### Step 4: Use Browser Interaction Helpers (Optional)

Reviewer: Minor: I know this technically _is_ optional, but I've found the new helpers so so so much better and I'm not sure this even needs to be called out as optional.  I'd highly recommend switching, everything I've touched is so much cleaner after switching to them.

For tests which were manually calling `elem.click()`, `elem.hover()`, use the `clickElem()` and `hoverElem()` helpers. These helpers will trigger a real browser interaction using the mouse.

Before:

```javascript
it('should focus', async() => {
  const elem = await fixture(html`<button>hello</button>`);
  elem.click();
});
```

After:

```javascript
import { clickElem } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';

it('should focus', async() => {
  const elem = await fixture(html`<button>hello</button>`);
  await clickElem(elem);
});
```

If tests were manually focusing or dispatching keyboard events, use the `focusElem()` and `sendKeysElem()` helpers.

```javascript
it('should press ENTER', async() => {
  const elem = await fixture(html`<input type="text">`);
  elem.focus();
  const eventObj = document.createEvent('Events');
  eventObj.initEvent('keypress', true, true);

>   eventObj.keyCode = '13';
> 	elem.dispatchEvent(eventObj);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  eventObj.keyCode = '13';
  elem.dispatchEvent(eventObj);
```

});
```

After:

```javascript
import { focusElem, sendKeysElem } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';

it('should focus', async() => {
  const elem = await fixture(html`<button>hello</button>`);

>   await focusElem(elem);
>   await sendKeysElem(elem, 'press', 'Enter');

Reviewer: Doesn't `sendKeysElem` already first focus on the element?
```suggestion
  await sendKeysElem(elem, 'press', 'Enter');
```

Due to these new defaults, if the repo is using a `web-test-runner.config.js`, it may no longer be necessary and could be removed. If the config file is necessary, rename it to `d2l-test-runner.config.js`.

Before

```yml
  "scripts": {
    "test:unit": "web-test-runner --files \"./test/**/*.test.js\" --node-resolve"
  }
```

After:

```yml
  "scripts": {
    "test:unit": "d2l-test-runner"
  }
```

## vdiff Tests

Breaking changes were made between the `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library to `@brightspace-ui/testing`'s vdiff functionality. These changes will require a migration, some of which can be done automatically but unfortunately some is manual.

Overview of changes:

* File/directory name changes (automatic migration)
  * Suite names which were previously repeated in the directory and filename have been removed
  * Leading `d2l-` in suite names has been removed
  * Browser name (always `chromium` previously) is now included in the path
  * Local snapshots are now stored in a `.vdiff` directory at the root of the project (which should be listed in `.gitignore`)
  * CI goldens are still stored alongside the tests in a `golden` directory, but without `screenshots/ci`

> * Fixtures were defined HTML files and tests in JavaScript files. Both are now defined in JavaScript. (manual migration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixtures were defined in HTML files and tests in JavaScript files. Both are now defined in JavaScript. (manual migration)
```

* Puppeteer was previously used to interact with the browser. It has been replaced with Playwright, but the browser can now be interacted with directly. (manual migration)

### Strategy for Large Repositories

For repositories with many vdiff tests, it may be easier to migrate a subset of tests at a time.

> By working in this way, both the old and new vdiff libraries continue to run in parallel as tests are gradually migrated from one to the other. Then once all tests migrated, the old infrastructure can be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By working in this way, both the old and new vdiff libraries continue to run in parallel as tests are gradually migrated from one to the other. Then once all tests are migrated, the old infrastructure can be removed.
```

> By working in this way, both the old and new vdiff libraries continue to run in parallel as tests are gradually migrated from one to the other. Then once all tests migrated, the old infrastructure can be removed.

Reviewer: Also worth calling out here that you'd setup a `vdiff.yml` workflow to do so, and point to the new action for an example? Basically what you have in line 323

The automated migration tools described below support an optional file pattern to make a gradual migration process possible.

### Step 1: Automatically Migrate Local Goldens

Before migrating a set of tests, it's helpful to first generate a local set of goldens using the old `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library.

```bash
d2l-test-runner vdiff migrate-local ./**/<location>/*
```

The optional location parameter can be used to migrate a subset of tests.

This will:

> 1. Install the old `@brightspace-ui/testing` library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the old `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library
```

> 2. Run the old library to generate local goldens
> 3. Optional: pass a location to run a subset of tests
> 4. Move the local goldens to their new location in the `.vdiff` directory

Reviewer: Maybe combine 2 and 3?

```suggestion
2. Run the old library to generate local goldens (optionally, pass a location to run a subset of tests rather than all of them)
3. Move the local goldens to their new location in the `.vdiff` directory
```

### Step 2: Manually Migrate Tests

For each test file being migrated:

1. Rename the JavaScript file from `*.visual-diff.js` to `*.vdiff.js`
2. Move the imports from the old `*.visual-diff.html` file to the top of the new JavaScript file. Do not import `@brightspace-ui/core`'s `typography.js` as it will be included automatically.
3. Add `import { expect, fixture, html } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';`
4. Move the defined fixtures from the HTML file to fixtures in the JavaScript file. Remove `id`s which were used solely for identifying the fixture for `getRect`.
5. Delete the old `*.visual-diff.html` file
6. Remove all the old Puppeteer, browser and VisualDiff setup code
7. Replace `async function() {` with `async () => {`
8. Rewrite everything using `page.$eval` to access the element directly (just like unit tests do)

> 9. Replace calls with `getRect` and `screenshotAndCompare` with `await expect(elem).to.be.golden()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Replace calls with `getRect` and `screenshotAndCompare` with `await expect(elem).to.be.golden()` (or `await expect(document).to.be.golden()` if a `rect` was not passed in and a whole page screenshot was taken)
```
Or something like that?

10. Make use of the `focusElem`, `clickElem`, `sendKeysElem`, `oneEvent`, etc. helpers where possible

> Before (HTML):

Reviewer: Minor: Worth including the names here to make it more obvious?  Something like:
```
Before (HTML: `my-elem.visual-diff.html`):
Before (JS: `my-elem.visual-diff.js`):
After (`my-elem.vdiff.js`):
```

  let browser, page;

  before(async() => {
    browser = await puppeteer.launch();
    page = await visualDiff.createPage(browser);
    await page.goto(`${visualDiff.getBaseUrl()}/test/my-elem.visual-diff.html`, { waitUntil: ['networkidle0', 'load'] });
    await page.bringToFront();
  });

  beforeEach(async() => {
    await visualDiff.resetFocus(page);
  });

  after(async() => await browser.close());

  it('passes visual-diff comparison', async function() {
    await page.$eval('#default', (elem) => {
      const innerElem = elem.shadowRoot.querySelector('button');
      button.focus();
    });
    const rect = await visualDiff.getRect(page, '#default');
    await visualDiff.screenshotAndCompare(page, this.test.fullTitle(), { clip: rect });
  });

});
```

After:

```javascript
import '../my-elem.js'
import { expect, fixture, focusElem, html } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';

describe('my-elem', () => {

  it('passes visual-diff comparison', async() => {
    const elem = await fixture(html`<my-elem></my-elem>`);
    await focusElem(elem.shadowRoot.querySelector('button'));
    await expect(elem).to.be.golden();
  });

});
```

> Much less code, right?

Reviewer: Awesome, love the example 🎉

### Step 3: Test Migration Locally

Test the migration by running `d2l-test-runner vdiff`, filtering by file using `--filter <file-name>` if appropriate.

> If tests fail, run `d2l-test-runner report` to view a HTML report visualizing the differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If tests fail, run `d2l-test-runner report` to view an HTML report visualizing the differences.
```
????

Author: Yep you're correct -- if the first sound is a vowel, it's "an".

The "FRA" case is more subjective and depends if you pronounce it "eff are eh" ("an FRA") or "frah" ("a FRA").

Reviewer: Yeah, wasn't sure if there was some alternate way to say HTML ("het mal") I'd never heard of 😛

Tips:

* If possible, line up the snapshot element size and viewport size to match the old values. This will result in a much clearer picture of any changes - or there may be none at all!

> * The Daylight fonts and typography are now included automatically. If those weren't added previously, this will result in some font changes. It may be helpful to turn these off with inline styles (`font-family: auto; letter-spacing: normal;, maybe color: black; font-size: 20px;`) while developing or to get an initial "clean" CI run to verify there are no actual unexpected changes. They can then be removed before merging the new goldens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Daylight fonts and typography are now included automatically. If those weren't added previously, this will result in some font changes. It may be helpful to turn these off with inline styles (`font-family: auto; letter-spacing: normal;`, maybe `color: black; font-size: 20px;`) while developing or to get an initial "clean" CI run to verify there are no actual unexpected changes. They can then be removed before merging the new goldens.
```

  eventObj.initEvent('keypress', true, true);
  eventObj.keyCode = '13';
  elem.dispatchEvent(eventObj);
});
```

After:

```javascript
import { focusElem, sendKeysElem } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';

it('should focus', async() => {
  const elem = await fixture(html`<button>hello</button>`);
  await sendKeysElem(elem, 'press', 'Enter');
});
```

### Step 5: Use `d2l-test-runner` Binary

Switch to `d2l-test-runner` from `web-test-runner`/`wtr` binaries in any `package.json` scripts.

By default, `d2l-test-runner` will:

* Run in Chrome, Firefox and Safari (except `vdiff` just runs in Chrome)
* Enable the `--node-resolve` flag
* Look for tests in `./test/**/*.test.js` (using the `test` group)
* Suppress `ResizeObserver` errors (a common reason repos use a config file)

Due to these new defaults, if the repo is using a `web-test-runner.config.js`, it may no longer be necessary and could be removed. If the config file is necessary, rename it to `d2l-test-runner.config.js`.

Before

```yml
  "scripts": {
    "test:unit": "web-test-runner --files \"./test/**/*.test.js\" --node-resolve"
  }
```

After:

```yml
  "scripts": {
    "test:unit": "d2l-test-runner"
  }
```

## vdiff Tests

> Breaking changes were made between the `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library to `@brightspace-ui/testing`'s vdiff functionality. These changes will require a migration, some of which can be done automatically but unfortunately some is manual.

Reviewer 2: Not tied to my suggestion. Just something about what you have now initially seemed off, though when I reread it it seems fine.

```suggestion
Breaking changes were made between the `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library and `@brightspace-ui/testing`'s vdiff functionality. These changes will require a migration, which is unfortunately only partially automated.
```

Author: I like yours better!

```

The optional location parameter can be used to migrate a subset of tests.

This will:

1. Install the old `@brightspace-ui/visual-diff` library
2. Run the old library to generate local goldens. Optional: pass a location to run a subset of tests.
3. Move the local goldens to their new location in the `.vdiff` directory

### Step 2: Manually Migrate Tests

For each test file being migrated:

1. Rename the JavaScript file from `*.visual-diff.js` to `*.vdiff.js`
2. Move the imports from the old `*.visual-diff.html` file to the top of the new JavaScript file. Do not import `@brightspace-ui/core`'s `typography.js` as it will be included automatically.
3. Add `import { expect, fixture, html } from '@brightspace-ui/testing';`
4. Move the defined fixtures from the HTML file to fixtures in the JavaScript file. Remove `id`s which were used solely for identifying the fixture for `getRect`.
5. Delete the old `*.visual-diff.html` file
6. Remove all the old Puppeteer, browser and VisualDiff setup code
7. Replace `async function() {` with `async () => {`
8. Rewrite everything using `page.$eval` to access the element directly (just like unit tests do)

> 9. Replace calls with `getRect` and `screenshotAndCompare` with `await expect(elem).to.be.golden()`. If `rect` was not passed in to take a screenshot of the whole page, use `await expect(document).to.be.golden()` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9. Replace calls to `getRect` and `screenshotAndCompare` with `await expect(elem).to.be.golden()`. If `rect` was not passed in to take a screenshot of the whole page, use `await expect(document).to.be.golden()` instead.
```
